DocPoc - Add Galexie export to GCS example (#1391)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/galexie/examples/gcs-export.mdx

---
title: Export to GCS
sidebar_position: 20
---

# Export to GCS

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: this seems more like `Goals` than `Requirements`, no?

Author: yes, sounds good!

- Ledger Metadata is stored on Google Cloud Storage(GCS).
- Downstream consumers need access to the latest network data with minimal latency.
  - Ledger Metadata for each newly closed ledger on Stellar Testnet should be expediently exported to GCS.
- Deployment shall be fully on-cloud, use GCP for all storage and compute needs.

## Solution - Publisher Pipeline

> Run the Galexie Dockerhub image, [stellar/stellar-galexie](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/stellar-galexie) as an instance in [GCP Compute Engines](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/create-jobs) and export the ledger metadata to [GCS bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/json_api/v1/buckets) storage. The running instance of [Galexie](/data/galexie/README.mdx) performs the key roles of data pipeline. It acts as the `origin` and `publisher` of ledger metadata to the Google Cloud Storage bucket which is the `sink`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the [Galexie Dockerhub image](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/stellar-galexie) as an instance in [GCP Compute Engines](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/create-jobs) and export the ledger metadata to [GCS bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/json_api/v1/buckets) storage. Refer to the [Admin Guide](../admin_guide/README.mdx) for more details on setup.

Galexie, in this example, acts as the `origin` and `publisher` of ledger metadata to the Google Cloud Storage bucket which is the `sink`.
```

Author: I worked in most of your suggestion, I left the docker hub image name as hyperlink, rather than hyperlinking the phrase, since that is how people reference the image. and added reference to Admin Guide/prereqs, as it states compute and gcs requirements as well, which was nice.

https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/1391/commits/8ad436fc7fd34d7ee412cc447270582315047268

### Prepare the Galexie configuration file locally

> `testnet-config.toml`

Reviewer: I am running this locally to see the preview and the filename outside looks a bit wierd formatting wise.
Perhaps, something like this is better?
```suggestion
```
# Filename: testnet-config.toml

[datastore_config]
type = "GCS"

[datastore_config.params]
destination_bucket_path = "galexie-data/ledgers/testnet"

[datastore_config.schema]
ledgers_per_file = 1
files_per_partition = 10

[stellar_core_config]
  network = "testnet"
```

</CodeExample>
```

Author: I added a header on the file name to be consistent with existing convention used for inline file content on other page in docs -  https://developers.stellar.org/docs/build/apps/ingest-sdk/ingestion-pipeline-code
